.\" Copyright (C) 2011,2012 Matthew and Janice Alton
.\" 
.\" This file is part of Miso.
.\" 
.\" Miso is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" Miso is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with Miso.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" 
.\" $Id: miso.1,v 1.13 2012/05/22 20:55:05 zma0472 Exp $
.\"
.TH MISO 1  "March 21, 2012" "version 0.9" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
miso \- Menus In, Strings Out
.SH SYNOPSIS
miso [\-h] [\-v] [\-c] [\-F field_separator] [\-V value_separator]
     [\-i initial_values] [\-f values_path] [\-l log_path]
     [\-s shell] [ file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Miso is a small utility which allows programmers to create menus and forms for
use in interactive scripts. Miso reads a simple schema contained in a file and
uses the curses library to create a menu or form as defined by the schema
objects.
.PP
Miso writes all information obtained from the user to stderr.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h
display a short help text
.TP
\-v
display version information
.TP
\-c
check schema syntax only
.TP
\-F field_separator
specify field separation character
.TP
\-V value_separator
specify value separation character
.TP
\-i initial_values
provide initial values string
.TP
\-f values_path
provide pathname of file containing initial values string
.TP
\-l log_path
provide pathname of log file
.TP
\-s shell
provide pathname of shell program
.TP
file
provide pathname of schema file
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
MISO_SCHEMA
pathname of schema file
.TP
MISO_OFS
character to be used as the output field separator
.TP
MISO_OVS
character to be used as the output value separator
.TP
MISO_VALUES
string containing the initial value of each field in a FORM
.TP
MISO_VALUE_PATH
pathname of an input file containing the initial value of each field in a FORM
.TP
MISO_LOG_PATH
pathname of the MISO operational log file
.SH FILES
.TP
/opt/etc/miso.conf
.SH EXAMPLES
Please see the example code contained in the /doc/examples directory of the
Miso distribution.
.PP
.SH EXIT STATUS
The exit status is 0 if the form or menu is correctly filled out and submitted
by the user. An exit status of 2 indicates an error condition.  An exit status
of 3 indicates that the user chose to cancel the session without submitting the
object. An exit status of 10 indicates that the user wishes to terminate both
the miso session and the calling script.
.SH AUTHOR
Matthew Alton (matthew.alton@gmail.com)
.SH SEE ALSO
miso.conf(5) dialog(1) newt(1) whiptail(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2011,2012 Matthew and Janice Alton.

Miso is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
.PP
Miso is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with Miso.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
